---
layout: minutes
date: 2025-02-19
title: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — 2025-02-19
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2025-02-19-vcwg",
        "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2025-02-19",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2025-02-19",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2025-02-19",
            "endDate": "2025-02-19",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "David Chadwick"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Denken Chen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin Dean"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Hiroyuki Sano"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rene Leveille"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Lewis"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Geunhyung Kim"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jennie Meier"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Phillip Long"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2025-02-19

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/d8dbb80a-e09f-49ed-8a49-536d60d7753c/20250219T110000/#agenda) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2025/02/19-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Denken Chen, Kevin Dean, Joe Andrieu, Brent Zundel, Michael Jones, David Chadwick, Hiroyuki Sano, Rene Leveille, Dave Longley, Manu Sporny, Dave Lewis, Geunhyung Kim, Jennie Meier, Benjamin Young, Phillip Long

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** David Chadwick

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Manu Sporny:** security group are reviewing the data integrity spec.  

> *Geunhyung Kim:* Geun-Hyung has joined #vcwg.

### 1. Path to Proposed Recommendation.
{: #section1}

> *Ivan Herman:* See [overview of the implementation status](https://github.com/w3c/verifiable-credentials/blob/main/admin/PR-March-2025/PR%20preparation.md).

#### 1.1. VCDM.
{: #section1-1}

**Brent Zundel:** 2 outstanding PRs (non-normative). Set of issues have all been addressed.  

**Manu Sporny:** agree doc is ready for progressing.  

**Brent Zundel:** we are (will be?) chartered to progress the VCDM.  

#### 1.2. Data Integrity & cryptosuites.
{: #section1-2}

**Brent Zundel:** testing is being done by ECDSA/EDDSA sub suites. We have 2 independent implementations of each feature. So fully covered.  

**Manu Sporny:** issue raised about acknowledgements using github handles. I am still progressing this.  
… issue is still being progressed and is not blocking.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to mark it as future.

**Michael Jones:** still needs to be addressed in DI spec. Does not mention they are github handles.  

> *Michael Jones:* The links in the DI acknowledgements are not identified as being GitHub user IDs.

**Ivan Herman:** the AC must vote on the same document that we submit so no changes allowed except spelling mistakes.  
… can update with editorial changes after AC has voted.  

> *Manu Sporny:* I meant /before/ we go to Proposed Rec, Ivan... we can do editorial /before/ we go to Proposed Rec.

> *Michael Jones:* Whereas, they are called out in VCDM:.

> *Michael Jones:* The Working Group would like to thank the following individuals for reviewing and providing feedback on the specification (in alphabetical order by first name or their Github handle if a name was not provided):.

> *Phillip Long:* PDL-ASU has joined #vcwg.

> *Michael Jones:* I'm fine with applying that text to the other specs.

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** messages to github handles could go to the wrong person.  

**Michael Jones:** please use text from VCDM in other specs as well.  

> *David Chadwick:* @manu: will do.

#### 1.3. VC JOSE COSE.
{: #section1-3}

**Brent Zundel:** 1 open issue and non-normative PRs.  
… test suite only lists a single full independent implementation. We need at least 1 more before we can move to PR.  

**Ivan Herman:** AC meeting not far away. If we cannot make a resolution next week to move our docs to PRs, there will be a long delay.  
… would be a shame if JOSE/COSE cannot move with rest of documents.  
… danger that it might never progress as people who use JWT may switch to competing IETF spec.  
… request for transition will be for 8 documents. Reviewers need several long hours to review all these.  
… so cannot expect a quick answer. At least 2 weeks will be needed.  

**Brent Zundel:** can reference IETF sd-jwt spec.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Draft transition request](https://github.com/w3c/verifiable-credentials/blob/main/admin/PR-March-2025/PR%20preparation.md).

**Michael Jones:** I have an email to send out re: testing of JOSE-COSE. Can we check my wording please via screenshare.  

**Brent Zundel:** yes, all good.  

**Ivan Herman:** we need a change control section to say how the doc has evolved between versions.  

_See github issue [vc-jose-cose#333](https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/issues/333)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-jose-cose/333 -->



#### 1.4. Controlled Identifiers.
{: #section1-4}

**Ivan Herman:** implementation report is incomplete.  

_See github pull request [cid#149](https://github.com/w3c/cid/pull/149)._

<!-- issue w3c/cid/149 -->



**Manu Sporny:** nobody likes the wording of this PR yet. Stronger MUST statements are requested, but it is already a MUST, just needs language tweaks. I will take another stab at this when I have time.  

**Brent Zundel:** if this PR is not resolved during the next week then the issue 141 will be marked for future resolution.  

**Michael Jones:** why not simply change SHOULD of existing text to MUST without any rewording.  

**Manu Sporny:** we will also need tests for this.  
… we were trying to not introduce new normative statements and more tests.  

> *Michael Jones:* I just checked. The CID spec still says "SHOULD be treated as invalid".

**Manu Sporny:** we could instead simply delete the statement because currently it is not being tested.  

> *Michael Jones:* I'm also fine marking this as future or pending close.

**Brent Zundel:** any opposition of marking this for future now?  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to mark as future, we need more time to find the right text.

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to future.

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to mark it as future, simplest fix is to delete the text starting with "and the identifier".

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1.

_See github issue [cid#141](https://github.com/w3c/cid/issues/141)._

<!-- issue w3c/cid/141 -->



**Manu Sporny:** can we close some issues prior to the review i.e. 22, 23, 25.  

> *Michael Jones:* I'm good.

#### 1.5. bitstring status list.
{: #section1-5}

**Brent Zundel:** a single issue and no PRs, so good to go. But implementation report has significant gaps in it. So we need more implementations to perform the test suite.  

**Manu Sporny:** the multi-status mechanism needs a statement of support from two implementations.  
… shall I produce a PR for major surgery to take this feature out, along with the corresponding tests?  

**Brent Zundel:** we can wait till next week.  
… I hope we will get the tests in time.  

**Ivan Herman:** timing is crucial and I am not available next week.  
… so no changes after next Friday please.  

**Manu Sporny:** I will produce the major PR at the weekend if it is needed.  

#### 1.6. VC JSON SCHEMA.
{: #section1-6}

**Brent Zundel:** been finished for a long time now. Two PRs are maintenance ones, and a single issue (143) that should have a PR raised ASAP.  

_See github issue [vc-json-schema#143](https://github.com/w3c/vc-json-schema/issues/143)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-json-schema/143 -->



**Brent Zundel:** but the PR should be only editorial.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to mark as future.

**Brent Zundel:** or I can mark the issue as Future.  

**Manu Sporny:** please mark it is Future now.  

**Brent Zundel:** the implementation report is completely empty, so this is a major problem. Means we cannot transition this doc to PR.  

**Ivan Herman:** we can publish this doc later if we find implementations later. Unlike JOSE-COSE which is more critical to the whole group of specs.  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to delay transition to Proposed Recommendation for VC JSON Schema... we can always do it later, not pushing it to Proposed Rec it isn't going to blow anything up, AFAICT.

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to delay and transition with the other specs later.

**Brent Zundel:** proposal is to remove JSON schema from transition request.  
… since no objections this is what we will do.  

#### 1.7. Final place for vocabularies and contexts once we publish VC 2.0 (issue verifiable-credentials#61)
{: #section1-7}

_See github issue [verifiable-credentials#61](https://github.com/w3c/verifiable-credentials/issues/61)._

<!-- issue w3c/verifiable-credentials/61 -->



**Brent Zundel:** there are a number of vocabs and contexts here, and they should have W3C URLs.  

**Ivan Herman:** currently they exist but merely redirect to github. They need moving from there to W3C storage.  
… after transition request is submitted we will have 2 weeks to move these files.  
… then we can change the redirection to their new home.  
… dont forget that next week we have to formal resolutions.  

---
